Software Freedom Conservancy Whistleblower Policy

1 Purpose

Software Freedom Conservancy (“Conservancy”) intends to adhere to 
all laws and regulations that apply to the organization, and the 
underlying purpose of this Policy is to support Conservancy's 
goal of legal compliance. The support of all directors, officers, 
and staff members is necessary to achieving compliance with 
various laws and regulations. An employee is protected from 
retaliation only if the employee brings the alleged unlawful 
activity, policy, or practice to the attention of a Compliance 
Contact (currently [FIXME: insert name of Director] and provides 
the Compliance Contact with a reasonable opportunity to 
investigate and correct the alleged unlawful activity. The 
protection described below is only available to employees that 
comply with this requirement.

2 No Retaliation

Conservancy will not retaliate against an employee who, in good 
faith, has made a protest or raised a complaint against some 
practice of a Conservancy supervisor, director, officer, or of 
another individual or entity with whom Conservancy had a business 
relationship, on the basis of a reasonable belief that the 
practice is in violation of law or a clear mandate of public 
policy.

Conservancy will not retaliate against an employee who discloses 
or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or a public body any 
activity, policy, or practice of Conservancy that the employee 
reasonably believes is in violation of a law, or a rule, or 
regulation mandated pursuant to law or is in violation of a clear 
mandate or public policy concerning health, safety, welfare, or 
protection of the environment.

3 Acting In Good Faith

Anyone filing a complaint concerning a violation or suspected 
violation of the ethical and legal standards noted above must act 
in good faith and have reasonable grounds for believing the 
information disclosed may indicate a violation of such standards. 
Any allegations that prove not to be substantiated and which 
prove to have been made maliciously or knowingly to be false will 
be viewed as a serious disciplinary offense.

4 Confidentiality

Violations or suspected violations may be submitted on a 
confidential basis by the complainant. Reports of violations or 
suspected violations will be kept confidential to the extent 
possible, consistent with the need to conduct an adequate 
investigation.

5 Reporting Procedure

Complaints may be filed by e-mail or in hard copy and may be 
submitted to either the Executive Director or to 
whistlereport@sfconservancy.org, which will be delivered to the 
Compliance Contact. Complaints relating to financial impropriety 
should be sent only to the Compliance Contact. The recipient of 
the complaint will notify the sender and acknowledge receipt of 
the reported violation or suspected violation within five 
business days. All reports will be promptly investigated and 
appropriate corrective action will be taken if warranted by the 
investigation.

6 Notification

Conservancy shall distribute this Policy to all employees and 
officers for their review. Every Conservancy employee and officer 
shall review the policy, and sign an Acknowledgment Form, 
attached hereto as Exhibit A. 


-----------------------------

  Exhibit A: Conservancy Whistleblower Policy Acknowledgment Form

My signature below indicates my receipt and understanding of the 
Software Freedom Conservancy Whistleblower Policy, incorporated 
herein by reference. 

I also verify that I have been provided with an opportunity to 
ask questions about the Policy.



_____________________________ 

  Employee Signature and date

